Samuel Pupke

DESCRIPTION
b.c is the source code that gets compiled into a library that provides threading, locks, and condition variables.
The library uses context switching to switch between threads, and uses several queues to keep track of threads that 
are ready, waiting for locks, waiting for condition variables, and finished threads that need to be cleaned up.
Each thread has its own stack and execution context, wrapped by a function thread_stub that allows the library
to wrap the user's function calls and control the threading flow more easily.
A schedule helper function is used to swap contexts between threads, instead of rewriting swaps in multiple places.
The schedule helper function also handles cleaning up finished threads.
When a thread exits, it stores its return value and readies any thread that called threadJoin on it.

DESIGN

threads: each thread is a thread_t struct that contains thread id, context, stack, state, return value, pointers to joiners, all threads, and ready next threads
schedule() is a helper that selects the next ready thread from the ready queue and uses swap context to save the current thread and switch to the next
threadCreate allocates a thread struct and its stack and context. makecontext sets up the context for create, and the thread is placed in the ready queue
threadExit marks the thread as finished, stores the return value, wakes joiner threads, and schedules the next thread
threadJoin blocks the caller thread until the target is finished, retrives the return value, and cleans up the finished thread
locks: lock has an owner thread, and the acquire function blocks the caller if the lock is already owned, and the release function wakes one waiting thread if there are any
condition variables: each condition variable has a queue of waiting threads, and the wait function releases the lock and blocks the caller, while the signal function wakes one waiting thread if there are any


KNOWN PROBLEMS
(fixed) - many instances of problematic ordering of code. tests would not match order of expected outputs, even with correct logic and output. 
(fixed) - volatile exit from schedule() helper. when there are no threads are ready then just return, don't do anything more. originally i had exit(0) here but that was too volatile and caused failures when high numbers of threads were being handled 


REFERENCES
For learning how to set contexts of new threads: https://www.ibm.com/docs/en/zos/3.1.0?topic=functions-makecontext-modify-user-context
    I used this in threadCreate to prepare for makecontext. There's probably a better way to do it(?) but this solution works and is from a reliable source. 
